There's one more technique we can use in order to reduce overfitting.
And this is called the Data augmentation.
So first we can reduce overfitting if we apply regularisation and this is why we ordered these dropout
layer in our own network besides drop out.
We can use data augmentation and it is going to make sure that we don't have to deal with overfitting.
OK so we can use data alimentation for two reasons.
First of all we need a huge data set for deep learning related algorithms and if we don't have a huge
data set then we can use data augmentation.
So it is going to solve the problem because data augmentation is going to apply random transformation
on the given images.
For example the rotations flipping scaling and so on and this is how we can make several images.
So at the beginning we have just a single image and if we apply data augmentation we are going to generate
lots of lots of images.
So if we don't have a huge data set then we can generate lots of lots of training samples with the help
of this method.
The second reason to use data augmentation is to reduce overfitting.
So because of the data our mentation the learning algorithm never uses the same image twice.
It is going to use a modified version of the original image.
After applying these random transformations rotations flipping the scaling and so on.
So it means that there's not going to be overfitting.
So first of all it is going to make sure that we have a huge data set.
And it is going to reduce overfitting.
And basically with the help of image data generator we can imported from Cara's pre-processing image
this image data generator is quite convenient to use.
We just have to define the random operations rotation range weight shift range hate shift range zoom
range.
So as you can see this algorithm is going to take a given image as an input and it is going to apply
random transformations zooming in or out shifting that hate shifting with rotating the given image and
so on.
So if you take a look at the documentation you can see that for example the rotation of range is an
integer.
It is the degree range for random rotations.
The weight shift range is going to be a floating point number.
It is the range for random horizontal shift.
Hey ships range is the range for random vertical shifts and so on.
OK so this is how we apply random transformations on the training data set on the test data set.
Of course we don't want to make any transformations so let's apply these transformations on the training
data that we find of that size.
And we just have to call the train generator we have defined here that flow method and it's going to
return the training generator.
The task generator is equal to that.
That's the generator of that flow.
We just have to specify the task today to set OK.
By the way we don't use any transformations on that task dataset.
But anyways this is how we get that training generator and the generator and we are able to feed the
generator on the model.
What's the model.
The model is the convolutional and our own network we have implemented in the previous lecture.
So we just have to feed the generator on the training generator.
We have to specify the top spare spoke the number of apples the validation data set is going to be the
test data set and the validation steps are going to be the staps in the last data set.
And because we use a bat size 64 and we have 60000 samples in the training data set.
That's why the staps Apple is going to be 60000.
Divide by 64.
And because we have 10000 items in the test dataset and we use a bat size 64 that's why the validation.
So the staps in the last data set is going to be 10000.
Divide by 64.
And as you can see we can achieve a bit better accuracy data augmentation as we have seen in the previous
lecture.
So I guess in the previous lecture the accuracy was 99 percent here.
We are able to achieve a bit better.
So with the help of data augmentation we can generate huge data sets and on the other hand we can reduce
overfitting.
Thanks for watching.